0:00  
Um, today's content I'm super excited for. So, Devin, why don't you go ahead and introduce yourself, and then we'll dive in.

0:08  
Everybody Nice to meet you. My name is Evan, I oversee our expansion teams here at Drift. And been here for about five years, super excited to talk about how to sell the C suite faster. We have an amazing list of people here to talk through that with us today. Before I pass it over to Brooke, one thing we want to get going in the chat is what is your biggest sales outreach pet peeve. So I want you all to think about that. And put it into the chat and kind of go through and see what are some of the trends that we're seeing across the across the team. And so with that, I'm going to pass it over to Brooke first to introduce yourself, and then we'll get to Katie, and

0:53  
I was just trying to think of what pet peeve to add in. I'll do that after. I am Brooke, I am a director of sales at Drift. I work hand in hand with Evan. My team is primarily new business, we do do a little bit of expansion. But then we hand the accounts over to Evans team to take care of those customers for the long term. So so that's my role. And I love doing these webinars. It's fun to talk about this stuff. I could do it all the time. And happy to be here with everyone. I'll pass it to Katie.

1:27  
Thank you, Brock. Yeah. Hi, everyone. I'm really excited to be heads day. I'm Katie and account executive at Outreach. based out in London, I saw in the chat. We've got someone from Germany, which I think is the closest to me that I've seen here. Yeah, I've been at Outreach for about three years now done both an SDR role and an account executive role. So yeah, looking forward to sharing some perspectives on selling to the C suite. I'll pass it over to Ted.

1:55  
Yeah, great. I'm seeing lots of pet peeves rolling. I think it's funny, we said the biggest pet peeve that assumes that there's more than one for each of us. But maybe that's a separate discussion. Hey, everyone, Ted McKenna. I'm founding partner of a company called DCM insights. We're a research company. I also co wrote a book called the jolt effect that some of you might have heard recently with Matt Dixon, you might know from the Challenger sale days, and so forth. So excited to to join the discussion today.

2:19  
Awesome, yeah. And we're seeing some good, Pepys looks like no phone number, no, no ability to see account level intent. That's a big one. So those are all things for sure. As as a, as any salesperson those would be tough things to kind of overcome.

2:45  
So the, you know, the first question we're gonna start off with this is the, you know, the understanding the most common pain points today for b2b executives. And, you know, we were talking a little bit offline, about this one, Brooke, about some of the things that you're kind of seeing in the field with reps and from talking to talking to a lot of executives, and this kind of idea of consumption and a lot of a lot of people buying technology. And so wanted to kind of kick it off to you in terms of what you're seeing today. And then obviously, we'll kind of get more perspective from Ted and Katie as well.

3:19  
We definitely are talking directly with more C level executives than ever before. I think in my sales career, I can't think of a time this number of C level execs have been involved in a deal. That is relatively high velocity, you know, these are deals that take a year to close. But they are deeply involved. And I think that the pain point tied to those executives, being deeply involved has to do with, you know, what we've seen in terms of the rate of purchasing technology. You know, for us at Drift, we're very deep in tech, SAS to be specific, and one of the biggest changes happen coming out of the pandemic. You know, there had been like this 10 plus year buildup of tech purchasing. And I don't know if you call it overconsumption, but definitely heavy consumption with the cloud, and not long ago, anyone in any department at like director plus level had some budget that they could largely spend without a ton of discussion, or case building. I'm not saying that it was easy on either side for buyers or sellers. But they, you know, had a lot of room to make decisions and they didn't necessarily have to go get buy in from other teams, even if what they were purchasing may be impacted those other teams and it could all happen really fast. And then that accelerated even more during the pandemic and came coming out of that. It was almost like you know, this hangover, and that made its way to the C level execs that we're talking to now, as they realize that, you know, their teams, even with the best intentions, had bottled This technology, but there was under utilization overlap of tools there was, you know, attacks on teams in terms of bandwidth to get going on software. And so we sort of saw all of that happening. And we were watching at the sea level, these execs sort of started, start to untangle a lot of what had gone on. And they still wanted to keep their teams moving fast, right? Like there are a lot of things that need to be purchased. But they had to start to smooth out what that evaluation process look like. So they could make sure that everything was working at scale across all of their teams. And that added a lot more steps to the process. Where you know, now we are building more business cases, we're talking to multiple departments. And this all ties back to that pain point that the C level has right now, which is I'm trying to keep my teams moving fast without over consuming and getting too tangled up with too many vendors. So that's the biggest thing that I've seen lately. Katie, what about you?

6:04  
I completely agree with you that Brooke, I think I've also seen that a lot of companies have just got this excess in their tech stack. And now, as you said, they've come to realize this and this sort of mandate of consolidation is absolutely what I'm seeing as well. And I think Alongside this, for a lot of we see suites, the same kind of themes keep on coming up. So the team capacity has gotten tighter. budgets have been caught, and they're basically being asked to do more with less. So the sort of themes that I keep on seeing is with this in mind, how can we make sure that we're efficient, and we're predictable, and we're productive? So I think over the past few years, there's been this role mandate of just growth, growth, growth and growth at any costs. But it really seems now it's been clamped down, and people are really striving for making sure that growth is profitable, which is really where efficiency comes in. So yeah, I think this really does feed back into your point around consolidation, as well. And just making sure that from both a wrap level and a technology stack, everything was efficient and consolidated, you're nodding their head. Is that what you're saying?

7:15  
Yeah, totally. I see tons a lot of overlap. I mean, so we just finished this giant giant study of two and a half million sales conversations and indecision was the big thing that popped up, I think you guys are making some really good points about the evolution of especially tech purchases, and how it's impacting how people are making decisions. And I think one difference we see now versus maybe two or three years ago, is that it now it feels less likely we're going to lose when we lose that we're going to lose to a competitor, you know, and more likely we lose to no decision. You know, we're in the in the past, it's more about how different are we versus our two or three big competitors because they're trying to decide who's best. Because I'm going to spend money. I just need to figure out who am I to spend money with. And now we see more deals, dying to no decision and specifically, their indecision that they're they're gripped by. And there's lots of evidence that that's on the rise too, for a lot of secular reasons. Like one of the big reasons people succumb to Indecision is because there's just so many options out there, they get, they get kind of stuck, right or too much information out there. That just paralyzes us all. And that's not ending, right. There's more information and more options out there every single day. And so this is what we're hearing a lot is sort of IT decision makers in general and their teams really sort of just stalling out and sort of gripped by indecision, should I move forward? When should I move forward? How should I move forward and so forth?

8:40  
I think that's a really interesting perspective. And I think that ties in nicely to what Brooke and Katie was talking about, which is, you know, you've seen this kind of growth, it's like democratization of purchasing within these companies. And there's more and more, you know, we've all seen the list of the martech lists and other lists as well, of the amount of software companies is really exploding, right. So you just have more and more to see more and more options. But that's not always necessarily a good thing when it comes to, you know, actually making a decision or on the other side, being a seller you not to compete against a bunch of other players that maybe there was a massive amount of differentiation. And it said, I think one more question there be curious, like, how are like, you know, we've kind of talked about this, this pain point around, you know, consolidation and, you know, also leading to the indecision because what companies have grown really quickly. How are you seeing these executives sell for that?

9:35  
Yeah, well, so on the sales side, I think one is kind of understanding that it's happening and by the way, past persons regrets can feed a little bit as indecision to right like Who among us doesn't feel like you've been oversold or overbought in the past and so those things can drive more hesitancy and more decision on this next, on this next type of purchase. We in that study, we found Lots of different for specific behaviors that kind of address the indecision fears that buyers have. I mentioned two of them already. The first third fear is outcome uncertainty. So who's who's ever felt this way? No matter how many case studies you send them, no matter how many reference calls they've done, no matter how many proof points you've given them, they just still don't feel like it's enough. Right? Like, I'll be the one exception. So that's kind of the third fear is like, you know, how much proof do you need, like, you know, just like make that leap of faith where they broke makes a good point, there's less likely or less willing to make that leap of faith. And so what the best sellers do, there's kind of four techniques. Jolt is an acronym. So yeah, we want to jump past a customer indecision. But the first one, the J is a judging level of indecision. So I have to understand and measure the degree or the intensity of that indecision and incorporated into how I think about qualifying that opportunity or forecasting its likelihood to close. The second one is offering a recommendation, that's the Oh, so we can't just let the buyer on the road decide is it this option, or that option, this configuration or that configuration, this integration or that can integration, even after they believe that they should buy from you that they want to buy they need to buy, they still have lots of decisions they have to make to get to the point where they actually transact. So what the best sellers are doing is they're being more personal, in making very specific recommendation of this is the package. This is the configuration. This is how to kind of think about this decision. So that's offering a recommendation. The L is we're limiting the exploration that kind of gets into that analysis paralysis that we know buyers asked for. It can be very tempting, I think for a seller to get sort of head faked by the buyer keeps wanting more demos, right? Like, can I have just another demo and another debt? And at first, it's like, this is great. They're loving it. Like they won't stop calling me they won't stop asking for the high performers thinking Hold on. Like, why wasn't the last demo enough? Like is it really the seven demos really gonna change your decision calculus. So you've got to find ways to going to limit that exploration and keep them into that, for productive, reasonable amounts of explorations, we talked about the techniques there. And then the last one is taking risk off the table, which sounds a little bit obvious, like in a situation, when that buyers grip to uncertainty, I've got to find ways to make it feel less risky, give a little bit of decision protection. Some of this is just about setting the right expectations, like being careful about when the buyer has outsized expectations, like they've, they see that case study that looks like it's like the perfect scenario, that's that, you know, is like really difficult to replicate. But that's where they start, like pegging their ROI projections to, and now it's hard to build consensus around, it's hard to get people to believe that that's going to actually happen. And so simple expectations and and can, can make a difference. But in the book, we go into detail about what we call safety nets, and the ways in which we can offer additional safety protection, which we don't do enough in b2b sales. So we can have a whole separate conversation about that. But that's the short version. Sorry, I have a Twitter 50 page book, kind of what we're dealing with indecision.

13:11  
Yeah, no, that was great, great cliff notes. And I think just to kind of summarize a little bit and move into more of the tactical side, I think the the common pain points around, you know, proliferation of software, you know, a lot of love and not being used regrets over past decisions being made also impacting decisions. And then Katie was talking about doing more with less, certainly something that's on every executives mind. So I think that's a, that's a really good way to kind of frame the conversation for today. So, you know, shifting gears a little bit to the tactical side. I think there's no one no one else better to kick us off there than you know, someone who's seen a lot of success as a, as a salesperson at Outreach, which, you know, I think a lot of people are just synonymous with outbound. And so we kind of know the challenges that are happening today, what they're dealing with. I think we had a good discussion around that. But Katie, for you, what does out bounding what is I guess, what is successful album into the C suite look like?

14:07  
Yeah, this is a really interesting topic. I think the first thing to recognize here is that no matter what industry you're in, when you're out binding to the C suite, they are absolutely, like, inundated with prospecting messages, just like yours. So a few pieces of advice to think about her. So number one, you've obviously got to make yourself stand out. Like I said, by the time they go into a meeting and then come back out, they might have 10 new emails from other sales reps also asking for 30 minutes of their time. So one way that we quite like to go about this is sending people personalized gifts. So do your research. Maybe they really like a sports team, for example, or like they went to a certain college or university and being able to leverage that to send them things. So one is One pull that we did with one of my target accounts last year was, I think we saw it on LinkedIn. But this person really liked the drink Guinness like pints of Guinness. And so we got our Guinness glass, got their name scratched into it carved into it, and sent it to their office with like a really personalized note attached. And literally, as we got the notification saying that it had been delivered, there was an email coming through from them, because it's just breaking through that noise. So I know that's kind of excessive, but just any little things you can do like that really, really make you stand out. I am also a big believer, outside of, you know, sending gifts to people that the quickest. And the best way to book a meeting is often on the phone. I think if you're picking up the phone and making cold calls to people, you're already above, you know, 80 90% of sales reps that aren't doing that, and that are just sending out emails to people. So just from picking up the phone, you're already giving yourself advantages. But obviously, it is important to keep a multi channel approach, you know, sending emails, LinkedIn messages and that kind of thing. So if you are sending emails, big tip pair is send it yourself on your iPhone first, because chances are if you're speaking to a C suite, they're probably reading that email on their phone as they're running between one meeting or another place in the office. So just making sure they can see it on their phone without having to scroll through multiple pages, is also speaking in a language that works for them. I don't know if that seems similar to what you're doing. Drift broke? It All.

16:40  
It all sounds very relevant. And like I always just think when you're thinking about the C suite, what do they have the least of time. So they don't have a lot of time to read what you're sending them to talk to you to take a meeting, I'd avoid asking for 30 minutes actually, right? Like in actuality, you probably want that C suite individual to delegate you down to someone who can start the conversation. But now that doors open, when the CEO or CEO or whoever it is that you have in your buying committee, where you can come back around to them recap them, you're not going to have your initial exploratory call with them anyway. So if you send a really brief to the point, well researched email to the C suite, ask a question like get right to the point. But don't ask them for 30 minutes, you're probably going to get a higher conversion rate. I like your point about, you know, making it easy for them to look at it on their phone coming and going from meetings, because that's the reality of the day to day. But I can't impress enough how important research is and just knowing your audience. I think that all of us in sales get into periods of time where we kind of like go through the motions where, you know, I'm gonna send the same sort of email to everyone because it worked. And then it stops working and we don't change. So consider what you're sending how brief it is, and what you're asking for, when thinking about the C suite.

18:09  
Just to jump in there as well. Brooke, I love what you said that about not asking for 30 minutes or a big demo, because it seems like a big ask and something hard to like buy into. So something that we've been kind of AB testing and seeing work is just open to learning some ideas as your sign off on your email. And, you know, it feels easy to buy into and like who's not open to just learning and picking up a few ideas. So that's yeah, it's something we've just been see work.

18:37  
Closely it going? Sorry,

18:39  
I was just gonna say I think the thing I heard from from both of you, and this is kind of like from from your site, Ted, like the expectations piece. Right. So you gave in Seattle was like that expectation of their time. And so I think it ties in nicely. you're discussing earlier around, what your expectations for engaging with a C level executive and McHattie make it successful.

18:57  
Yeah, totally. I love that two to three minute thing. But I think Be careful, like when you get let's, let's say that successful, make sure you keep it at two or three minutes, because you want to like, um, throughout you want and by the way, think about the trust you earn when that happens, like, you know, that's part of the reason they're hesitating give you two minutes because they think what you really mean is 25 minutes, but I'm just saying two minutes. So I think as a really smart as trying to time box it, I think, you know, think about like the Brookey made a good point about like research and what's going on with this specific industry and sort of helping you tailor that message. Like think about the meeting as these people might have just come from when they're about to read that email, like the tough budget meeting where they're, they're making hard decisions about layoffs, you know, then open up an email and ask for a demo. It feels like it's a hard, you know, shift gear shift there. And so, you know, putting in just a little bit of detail about you know, here's here's why this is important right now, but now with tailored in the lens of like your industry and what's going on there in that moment.

20:01  
100% I think the, you know, these are all really good, best practices and good discussion around. I think going back the expectations piece of, you know, we're all being asked by our leadership, everyone probably here on this call to get more sea levels involved in your deals, you know, like, I probably don't know a person who you going to do a review with where that's being important. So understanding how you're going to do it, why you're going to do it, why they should care. And then, you know, I think the, I've typically found, if you do a 30 minute conversation with a C level, they always show up what five to eight minutes late, a lot of times, it's because of running from meeting to meeting meeting, if you can give them five minutes back of their time, and actually just take 25 minutes, that can go a long way to building that relationship with them, where they feel they trust you and they see you as a trusted adviser. So those are some really good, some good best practices that we're seeing. So we talked about, you know, the, what executives are dealing with, who contacted about the little bit of the problem statement, and then going to some good best practices, Katie kicked us off around, how do you actually get in front of that person? What are the things that work to help you cut through the noise and get their attention? Now you have their attention, you're hopping on a call. So, you know, Ted, from your perspective that you know, monitoring a lot of sales calls a lot of monitoring a lot of sales reps over a long, long period of time. You know, love to kick it off to you in terms of what you've seen work and rapport building with the executive to lead a successful discovery call? Yeah,

21:38  
I mean, look, discovery is a necessary but difficult thing. And people have been trying to crack this code for a long time. And so I can't tell you that we've, we have the exact code to make it absolutely perfect. But I have seen enough data and listened to enough calls to tell you that you're better off if this feels like a two way conversation than if it feels like you're just extract you're just there to extract information from this person's brain. So what you'll hear often when people talk about discovery is the next word out of their mouth is questions, you have to ask great questions. Of course, that's true. But we should be following up those questions in ways that either shares an insight, but I think more importantly, just allows for some actual back and forth discussion. You know, when you look at some of the high performer conversations that we looked in our study, it feels almost like a I mean, I don't want to say a debate, but kind of like a debate where you're, you know, you don't want to be combative. So that's why I don't wanna use the word debate. But it does feel like there's there's even comfort for some amount of overlap in that discussion. And so that's, that's what I would encourage people to think about, or maybe there's a good question you can ask that allows for that type of back and forth exchange or, or sharing a piece of insight on the back end of oh, you know, this could resonate with me, because this happens here at our organization, just something to kind of get that discussion going.

23:05  
Sure, I think the understanding the executive before we get to that conversation is a big piece of big piece of this. And I think, you know, Katie, from from from your side, you know, again, kind of being in the field every day, getting ready for these conversations, what are some of the things that you put into place that help you really nail that conversation with your first conversation with an executive?

23:27  
Yes, so I think we kind of touched on it earlier, but just doing your research is so important, before you're getting on a call with an executive. And just trying to find something above and beyond, oh, the weather's really bad today? Or where are you dialing in from the they probably get asked on every single sales call that they joined. If you can get on there, knowing the you know, they like a sports team, or they UAB went to the same university, or even if there's not something really specific about them on their LinkedIn, but you can see that their company has just released a new product, ask them about how that's going, just so you can from the get go. You know, they just they respect you more because they know that they're not just wasting their time, and that the next person in the revolving door of all the prospects you're speaking to today, there's a really kind of specific and intentional reason for speaking. I think that's just a great way for them to have that respect with you from the get go. What are you thinking, Brooke?

24:29  
And add on to that, like, you know, at the end of the day, a report is really about relating to each other. So, some ways to do that. Or like, you know, talk about the kids talk about sports teams, whatever that might be, again, the higher up you go. I think that C level execs appreciate it when you understand their day to day so that rapport building at the top of the call can be as simple as like, I know you have 25 minutes for this. I totally get that talk about another two or three seats. Those are CROs that you were talking to this week that were just like them, that helps build some credibility for you too, because you do this all the time. And now that like relationship is being built around you understanding the nature of their job, and the fact that they're on this call in the first place that you're going to be tight, you're going to get to business quicker than usual. They'll tell you if they want to chitchat, right? They'll push back and like, oh, it's alright, we can spend some time. But for the most part, you'll build a lot of credibility upfront by being a little bit more brief than you usually are maybe with some other roles that you sell into. And I love the point about doing research and knowing something relevant about their company that would take more than two clicks to figure out right, so not like what you see on their homepage, but what you see when you dig through something that their competitors are doing or something in an earnings report that you can bring up that shows that you can play at that same level that you're not, you know, at a basic level, and you should be on the call with them.

26:02  
Yeah, if it's a public company, and you have, you know, earnings reports, those are great places to look for that type of information. I love the notion of being of it being relatable, as opposed, like rapport feels like a nebulous thing. But if I could just find a way to be relatable to you as an individual, I think that's kind of the goal, right.

26:21  
100%, I think something I saw in the chat that I really liked was don't ask the discovery question that you can Google a question that you can Google. It's pretty funny. I think that's a great framework. I feel like we all were We were coaching reps, or we were reps ourselves. I think that that level of expectation that felt like being relevant with that buyer is so, so important, I think we have to realize, as you're talking about the of the of the chain, is the the the expectation they have for you as a seller becomes understanding their business. It's just gets more, it just gets higher and higher, I think. And one thing, Ted, I'm kind of curious, get your thoughts here is given how much you've studied sales reps over a long period of time, and you're setting behaviors and what works. I think that that kind of like that Google question points really well to the the amount of information that's out there about companies and about executives think about LinkedIn. Like, like, why someone got hired, there's a lot of information on Google a few clicks away about these people, like, how do you feel like when reps are hopping in discovery call? Those actually like edge cases are higher than maybe they were even like, 10 years ago?

27:37  
That's a good question. I think the I think it's a fair point to say that, you know, yeah, if you'd had spent five minutes googling this, you probably would have known this, right? And more so than five or 10 years ago, in part because we're all more savvy with Google and more savvy with Yes. And there's tools like zoom info and others that you can go and find this information. So it's less about like, I think less of you, because you asked that question and more like you're wasting my time. Right, like, and my time is really valuable. And now we're like, minutes seven, and you're asking me like things you could have. So what why should I spend the next two minutes with you? If you just wasted the first seven, you know?

28:20  
Yeah, totally. It's almost like you, those first few minutes are critical to building up that trust, to opening up that executive. And maybe you answer that question or kind of open up a little more about themselves.

28:32  
Because it's kind of goes wrong is is I liked that Google question a lot. I'm definitely gonna steal that. One. But um, but it's also the templatized discovery, where it's like, I'm just you can go through the form. And I'm just asking, and so because of that, there's no real discussion on it. I'm just getting the answer. It's recorded. Great. Let me move to the next question. There's just like, like, what are we doing here? Like, you could, you could have sent this to me, you and I could have answered over email. That's all you're looking for. You know. So that gets back to the discussion question we had earlier. But I think both of those things can do real damage to the, again, for me, it's like, you're trying to get that person to want to spend more time on this problem with you, but on this problem. And so that's, that's the frame of reference is like, don't waste my time.

29:17  
Right? Like earning, earning that trust and being able to kind of like earn the right, you know, to get to get to get more time. And Katie, we talked about this a little bit around like the value hypothesis and going into the conversation with that ready. And we've seen some really great tactics, even with our own teams of, you know, first time meeting with a CMO, they'll send a video before that initial conversation kind of warm up that person to talk through by hypothesis and what they've learned so far from the team. Or they're, like, I'd love to, I'd love for you to talk a bit more about the VI hypothesis side of this and like how that helps with the discovery portion from what you're saying.

29:56  
Yeah, so this is something we've maybe been doing for like nine months or so now. But when you've done that research previously coming to that first meeting, especially with the C suite with a hypothesis slide on, from your research what you think might be going on. So, you know, things like they have just released, they released a new product a few months ago, maybe your hypothesis is that they're really focused on upselling. This to their existing customers, it can be things that are pretty simple, and you know, maybe wouldn't take a genius to work out. But again, that just really shows them that you aren't just out bounding every single account hoping to get any leads, you can find, you've really again, got that like intentional reason for speaking to them. And just sometimes even from putting pretty basic things on it, you get reactions, like, wow, were you in my internal meeting last week? And that kind of thing? Which this kind of Yeah, goes back to the rapport question of how can we build that credibility as a seller? Pitch thing? That's a great way to get off.
